---

title: "First attempt: FPV racing drone"
author: "Pablo Álvarez"
tags: [electronics, drones, fpv]
categories: electronics

---

When I was younger, I always wanted to build some sort of aircraft, but I had not the opportunity to build any because of their complexity.

With the arrival of racing drones, a whole new world opened in front of my eyes: I could build flying articrafts without needing to worry about difficult modeling and aerodynamics! Just with some knowledge about electronics and soldering practice, I could be able to fulfill my dream.

## Parts

The racing drone I build is based on the following parts:

- PDB: 
- ESC: 
- FC: 
- Motors:
- Props:
- Camera:
- VTX:
- Frame:
- Receiver:

For the transmitter, I am using a classic Taranis X9D, with a R9M module (using the 900MHz band to achieve a longer range).

## Assembly

The assembly was pretty straightforward, since it was extremely similar to the one of any other racing drone, and there is plenty of documentation and tutorials around the Internet. Just solder the Motors to the ESCs, the ESCs to the PDB and the PDB to the FC. screw all the pieces together (PCBs+Motors+Frame) and, before closing up, solder the camera to the OSD input of the FC and the Video output of this last one to the VTX. The final result should look something like this:

FOTO

## Firmware

The firmware to be installed to the FC is called [Betaflight](https://betaflight.com/). While there are many other open-source firmwares around, Betaflight has become established as the _standard_ one for racing drones. 

Connect the FC to the PC in DFU mode (see on the instruction manual how to do this, it may differ from one FC to another) and flash the firmware. Once it has been flashed, you can start playing around with the different options betaflight offers, such as controlling the PIDs, telemetry, OSD, Failsafe, etc.

For last, but not least, we will have to pair our receiver with the Taranis. For that, simply set the Taranis in pairing mode and keep pressed the _pair_ button of the receiver while you power it on. 

In my case, I also needed to upload the receiver's firmware. It can get complicated if you don't succed the very first time, but with a little bit of practise, you get used to the updating procedure. You can find very good tutorials (I followed [this](https://oscarliang.com/flash-frsky-rx-firmware/) one) and videotutorials around, and documentation at Frsky's official [website](https://www.frsky-rc.com/download/).

FOTOS

## Testing and first flights

The project was succesful! you can see some of my first flight in the following videos:

VIDEOS

## Conclusion

Building a racing drone is quite a simple project that does not take a lot of time (I built mine in a week or so). Choosing the right parts, it can also result in an extremely cheap alternative to tradicional rc airplanes. Moreover, they are fun and easy to fly, resulting in a project that I would consider _a must_ for electronics enthusiasts.

FOTO
